So let's go through and
let's play with an example.
So I've got this area for
mapping exercises,
and let's go play around
with this a little bit,
this is in the mapping directory here.
Here we have, Get character is
a fake promise in this case,
it's a fake API request, is a JSON file
and here you can see the answer sheet.
But go ahead, from this promise Get
me the first one in the database and
get plucked the name out.
That seems fine, that's good, so
what we want to do at this point is,
we wanna be able to map
these in different ways.
But what happens if we wanted
to get four characters?
We wanted to go get, one, two, three and
four, so we could do something like
of 1, 2, 3, and 4.
And maybe this is what we get back from
the API that they were looking for.
And what I wanna do is,
I wanna take those numbers, and
we'll see I'm gonna do this wrong first.
We'll map them and
we'll say, for that number,
I want to go get that character.
Let's start with the full
character at this point.
And we'll get that Nth character.
And you can see that
this doesn't work great,
and if you look under the hood
these are a bunch of observables.
So I can merge map them, instead of a map
We gotta require that one,
swap this one out.
Now you can see it pulls in, each one
of them, as its own independent piece.
So, it's taking, hey, I need,
these ideas in the database,
go fire them off in parallel,
as they come back, put them on the page.
So these are all getting fired
in parallel and as they come in,
they are getting handled.
And so you begin to play around with
pieces of this as we go through.
So we have the ability to
switch between things.
This seems kind of interesting for
us, like what could we do here?
I think switch map is one of
the more interesting ones, and
once you wrap your head around switch map,
you can also theoretically get a sense
around how to deal with exhaustion.
Just what logic do you want?
To write the usage and syntax isn't
too different, versus the idea of
figuring out how to deal with different
pieces of this along the way.
So I'll actually show you
a simple implementation of it and
we play around with it
a little bit as well.
We'll look at it,
we'll try to implement it, also.
So I have this playground that I built.
And this is the under
the hood piece of it.
Well, actually, I'll take it for
a spin in a second, but
we've got the start and
the stop that we've seen before.
We've got this ability to clear,
all that does is clear out the DOM,
it's not really important for us.
But we're gonna merge, play and pause.
And then, we're gonna switch between,
if it's running, we're gonna switch
between whatever observable we care
about ,or this special observable.
There's two, two is a strong word, but
there are two special
observables that RX JS gives us.
One is called NEVER.
And the other one is called EMPTY.
Just as a random guess,
what do you think NEVER does?
>> Never-
>> Nothing.
>> Nothing, never emits.
It never completes.
It's just like a black hole of observable.
Nothing happens.
And EMPTY will basically,
immediately complete.
Like I don't wanna do anything here,
I am actually done, like that's it,
we're finished.
So if you look at this switch map code,
we have the true and
the false coming through.
Just like we had that one, two, three,
four previously, either true or
false is coming through.
That value is again true or false.
If it's running, I would love to switch to
this observable from the very beginning,
and forget what you were doing, if
another like anything else was happening,
because theoretically never
could have been happening.
If it is false,
Then switch to this NEVER observable.
So means that when we're running well
listen to whatever, this could be,
for instance, an interval.
You can see how this might work for
our timer, where we say,
cool switch that interval
that's counting away.
If it's false,
redirect to the NEVER observable.
So now we have the ability to change
the flow based on other events
that come through in this case.